This document is being provided for the exclusive use of SCOTT MORGAN at FREE TRIAL. Not for redistribution. 
Bloomberg News Story 
03/11/2020 14:30:15 [WPT] Washington Post 
Live Updates: WHO Declares Coronavirus a Pandemic, Citing ‘alarming Levels of Spread And ... Alarming Levels of Inaction’ 
By Rick Noack, Lateshia Beachum, Miriam Berger and Alex Horton 
(Washington Post) --The World Health Organization on Wednesday declared coronavirus a pandemic, reflecting concern from WHO that countries aren't working quickly and aggressively enough to contain the virus. "We are deeply concerned both by the alarming levels of spread and severity and by the alarming levels of 
inaction," WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said. The declaration came as the number of novel coronavirus cases surpassed 120,000 worldwide. In the United States, 
where more than 30 people have been killed by the coronavirus, the total number of cases has doubled in a matter of days, surpassing 1,000 late Tuesday. The White House is considering moving all of Europe to a Level 3 travel advisory, discouraging all nonessential 
travel to those regions, according to two people with knowledge of the discussions. Here are the latest developments: German Chancellor Angela Merkel warned Wednesday that up to 70 percent of her country could end up infected. 
U.S. markets slid as coronavirus tightens its grip on the economy and the oil price war escalates. 
In Italy, there are now more than 10,000 coronavirus cases. Schools and universities across Poland, as well as in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, will be shut for the rest of March, as European countries attempt to limit large gatherings. South Korea's daily tally of new confirmed cases, which had been declining amid a mass testing program, almost 
doubled the previous day's numbers. 
Iran announced 63 more coronavirus deaths, bringing the death toll to over 350. With another thousand infections announced, the country's total has increased to more than 9,000. Sign up for our coronavirus newsletter | Mapping the spread of the coronavirus | What you need to know about the 
virus | Post Reports: Your questions about coronavirus, answered | Tried to get tested for coronavirus and been turned away? Tell us your story. Click 
Here 
to see the story as it appeared an the Washington Post website. Copyright 2020 The Washington Post -0-Mar/11/2020 18:30 GMT 
This report may not be modified or altered in any way. The BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL service and BLOOMBERG Data are owned and distributed locally by Bloomberg Finance LP ("BFLP") and its subsidiaries in all jurisdictions other than Argentina, Bermuda, China, India, Japan and Korea (the ("BFLP Countries"). BFLP is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bloomberg LP ("BLP"). BLP provides BFLP with all the global marketing and operational support and service for the Services and distributes the Services either directly or through a non-BFLP subsidiary in the BLP Countries. BFLP, BLP and their affiliates do not provide investment advice, and nothing herein shall constitute an offer of financial instruments by BFLP, BLP or their affiliates. 
Bloomberg ® Printed on 08/15/2023 Page 1 of 1 


